# Capstone
Ontario broader public sector Emissions and Energy Usage data

Abstract:

Agencies under the broader public sector in Ontario are required to report energy use and greenhouse gas emissions under Ontario Regulation 507/18 made under the electricity Act, 1998. Under this regulation municipalities, their service boards, school boards, post-secondary educational institutions, and public hospitals are all required to report. The reports are summarized to include energy consumption, water, sewage, and greenhouse gas emissions. Reporting agencies are also required on every 5th anniversary of July 1, 2019, to submit and publish plans to the public for energy consumption, forecasted results, results achieved and changes to be made to reach the forecasted results.
	The objective of this project is to look at the data for 6 years and see what this regulation has accomplished in that time. It will look at all the energy consumption and emissions for all the operations under the Ontario broader public sector and see which ones have been successful in reducing them. Next visualizations will be created to show what the energy consumption and GHG emissions looks like in the broader public sector of Ontario.
	This project will focus on the data that has been reported for the years 2014 to 2019 available on the Ontario Government data catalogue (https://data.ontario.ca/en/dataset/energy-use-and-greenhouse-gas-emissions-for-the-broader-public-sector). After detecting any anomaly and cleaning the data, decision tree classification model will be used to create two predictive model to see which variables available in the data have the biggest contribution to the success of reducing emissions and energy consumption respectively. The analytics and modelling were done mainly on python using pandas and other libraries with some visualization done on R. Overall, this work will determine whether there have been any significant changes and if the regulation is on track to accomplishing its goals of reducing the energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by agencies under the Ontario broader public sector.
